Exploits and malware policy updates (#397)
github/site-policy: Policies/github-community-guidelines.md

   In rare cases of very widespread abuse of dual use content, we may restrict access to that specific instance of the content to disrupt an ongoing unlawful attack or malware campaign that is leveraging the GitHub platform as an exploit or malware CDN. In most of these instances, restriction takes the form of putting the content behind authentication, but may, as an option of last resort, involve disabling access or full removal where this is not possible (e.g. when posted as a gist). We will also contact the project owners about restrictions put in place where possible. 

   Restrictions are temporary where feasible, and do not serve the purpose of purging or restricting any specific dual use content, or copies of that content, from the platform in perpetuity. While we aim to make these rare cases of restriction a collaborative process with project owners, if you do feel your content was unduly restricted, we have an [appeals process](#appeal-and-reinstatement) in place.

>    We allow dual use content and assume positive intention and use of these projects to promote and drive improvements across the ecosystem. In rare cases of very widespread abuse of dual use content, we may restrict access to that specific instance of the content to disrupt an ongoing unlawful attack or malware campaign. Restriction is aimed at disrupting ongoing attack or malware campaigns and where possible takes the form of putting the content behind authentication, but may, as an option of last resort, involve a full removal where this is not possible (e.g. when posted as a gist) or if the content is posted by the account owner as part of a direct participation in unlawful attack or malware campaigns that are causing technical harms. We will contact the project owner in an effort to discuss and collaborate on any such response. The goal is to hinder the proliferation of a specific unlawful active attack or malware campaign that is causing technical harm, and does not serve the purpose of purging or restricting any specific dual use content, or copies of that content, from the platform in perpetuity. While we aim to make these rare cases of restriction a collaborative process with project owners, if you do feel your content was unduly restricted, we have an appeals process in place (See "Appeal and Reinstatement")

Author: just noting that line 89 (on the left)☝️ might look like a deletion but it's because we moved it up - see line 84-88 (on the right) to see the updated wording

   You may not post content that presents a distorted view of reality, whether it is inaccurate or false (misinformation) or is intentionally deceptive (disinformation) where such content is likely to result in harm to the public or to interfere with fair and equal opportunities for all to participate in public life. For example, we do not allow content that may put the well-being of groups of people at risk or limit their ability to take part in a free and open society. We encourage active participation in the expression of ideas, perspectives, and experiences and may not be in a position to dispute personal accounts or observations. We generally allow parody and satire that is in line with our Acceptable Use Polices, and we consider context to be important in how information is received and understood; therefore, it may be appropriate to clarify your intentions via disclaimers or other means, as well as the source(s) of your information.

- #### Active malware or exploits

>    Being part of a community includes not taking advantage of other members of the community. We do not allow anyone to use our platform in support of active attacks that cause harm, such as using GitHub as a means to deliver malicious executables, or as attack infrastructure, for example by organizing denial of service attacks or managing command and control servers.

Reviewer: I have learned this is one of the kost dangerous hackers in the world kayla b is the most dangerous woman alive and shes caused more pain in her life than any one i have ever met the pain kayla b has caused has harmed her six kids and destroyed her ex husband and microsoft and github and alot of others have done this and it will be fixed very very soon

>    Being part of a community includes not taking advantage of other members of the community. We do not allow anyone to use our platform in support of active attacks that cause harm, such as using GitHub as a means to deliver malicious executables, or as attack infrastructure, for example by organizing denial of service attacks or managing command and control servers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Being part of a community includes not taking advantage of other members of the community. We do not allow anyone to use our platform in support of unlawful attacks that cause technical harms, such as using GitHub as a means to deliver malicious executables, or as attack infrastructure, for example by organizing denial of service attacks or managing command and control servers.
```

>    Being part of a community includes not taking advantage of other members of the community. We do not allow anyone to use our platform in support of active attacks that cause harm, such as using GitHub as a means to deliver malicious executables, or as attack infrastructure, for example by organizing denial of service attacks or managing command and control servers.

Reviewer 2: In my understanding @besimorhino such PowerShell download cradles would only be in scope under the proposed language if they were specifically hosted in support of unlawful attack or malware campaigns, if they have a dual-use (e.g. network penetration testing tooling, or security/malware research) established prior to any abuse reports associated to such an unlawful attack they would not be affected.

>   Note, however, that GitHub supports the posting of content which is used for research into vulnerabilities, malware or exploits, as the publication and distribution of such content has educational value and provides a net benefit to the security community. We ask that repository owners take the following steps when posting potentially harmful content for the purposes of security research:

Reviewer 3: A large percentage of open source security tooling hosted on GitHub is designed to help with security audits, pen testing, red teaming, etc. It is used for research into network and operational vulnerabilities, rather than software. It would be good to ensure this category is included in this list of "beneficial to the security community".

Reviewer 4: I agree with Lee. Many repositories host/archive malicious phishing kits/sites, binaries, and code (e.g. metasploit) that are used for educational and unfortunately are used for malicious intent.

>   * Clearly identify and describe any potentially harmful content in a disclaimer in the project’s README.md file.

Reviewer 5: This and the following line imply that a repository must use Markdown.  Not all users wish to use Markdown for their repositories, and any suitable file format should be acceptable.

>   * Clearly identify and describe any potentially harmful content in a disclaimer in the project’s README.md file.

Reviewer 6: > potentially harmful content

This clause would likely be better received by the security community if the same standards were applied to all code. There's plenty of sys admin scripts that can completely ruin your systems... is there a similar restriction placed on them?  The placement of the clause confuses me. Is it for everyone, or just code that could be problematic?

Reviewer 7: > There's plenty of sys admin scripts that can completely ruin your systems...

Agreed - what the suggested change does is pushes responsibility onto the commiter whilst providing no clear definition of "potentially harmful".

`rm` is potentially harmful, but presumably wouldn't need to declare it.

There are Nessus plugins that are potentially harmful if run against a production box, but they're not intended to do harm. Would they need to put a disclaimer in?

>   * Provide a designated security contact through a SECURITY.md file in the repository.

Reviewer 8: As publishing exploits can be a legal grey area, in certain situations someone may wish to publish anonymously (e.g. whistle blowing, forcing a fix with public disclosure). Requiring a contact opens an avenue for legal action against researchers.

Reviewer 9: This will simply result in an army of strawmen appearing as "security contacts" and nothing more. GitHub has all the means to get in touch with the user who published the content, why introduce this measure? Who exactly does this serve the most and which problem does this solve? Please explain how this possibly personal information will be used and why the currently existing means are not sufficient.

Reviewer 7: This change essentially mandates that people publish PII somewhere it can trivially be scraped.

That seems like a really, really poor policy change. As @dev-zzo says, GH already has all that's needed to make contact (as well as the ability to take stuff down).

This feels like an example of really, really bad practice - this isn't an organisation exposing services (i.e. the use-case for `.well-known/security.txt`)

>   * Provide a designated security contact through a SECURITY.md file in the repository.

Reviewer 10: A `SECURITY.md` security policy seems positioned to identify how a project wishes to receive responsible disclosures. What would an example `SECURITY.md` look like for a project _documenting_ a proof of concept?

Reviewer 4: More so what would a security.md look like for projects like metasploit that are actually used for malicious intent.

>   Please also note, GitHub will generally not remove exploits in support of vulnerability reporting or security research into known vulnerabilities. However, GitHub may restrict content if we determine that it still poses a risk where we receive active abuse reports and maintainers are working toward resolution.

Reviewer 8: Once a 0day is published, have take downs been shown effective in mitigating spread? My assumption would be that malicious actors have access to it via personal networks at that point. The take down likely just draws more attention to it. Recommend to leave things up.

Reviewer 11: Not only that, the take down also hinders detection and response teams. Look, the malware is going to exist and is going to be deployed. If we decide to remove it from public eye, we're also choosing to remove our capability to quickly respond.

Reviewer 12: Depends on how operationalized/weaponizable the exploit is, and how easily it can fit into the attacker's toolkits and operational tempo.

Reviewer 13: This is a large part of what informed the current language in this policy. Take downs tend to just push explot/0day code into less-public and less-accessible spaces, where defenders and researchers are less likely to see them (and, thus, less likely to be able to create patches or fixes).

Ease of access by researchers becomes more, not less, important when an exploit is being actively exploited.

Reviewer 8: > Ease of access by researchers becomes more, not less, important when an exploit is being actively exploited.

I think this sentence might go against that spirit - `However, GitHub may restrict content if we determine that it still poses a risk where we receive active abuse reports and maintainers are working toward resolution.` Companies will want 0day or something being actively exploited (read: hurting their reputation) taken down and will push hard for this.

Reviewer 9: In my experience, by the time an exploit hits public repos, it has either been depleted of most of its hack value and/or spread over "the forums" and whoever wanted has got a copy already or getting it is within direct reach. Removing content does not really help curb any ongoing attacks as they are, well, already ongoing, but it does hinder or prevent future analysis and other research work. If GitHub has any statistical data that would back the contrary, please share.

>    *GitHub considers the npm registry to be a platform used primarily for installation and run-time use of code, and not for research.*

Reviewer 14: Is this intended to discourage research like "Dependency Confusion" or would this kind of research still be allowed under this policy change?

https://medium.com/@alex.birsan/dependency-confusion-4a5d60fec610

   Note, however, that GitHub supports the posting of content which is used for research into vulnerabilities, malware or exploits, as the publication and distribution of such content has educational value and provides a net benefit to the security community. We recommend that repository owners take the following steps when posting potentially harmful content for the purposes of security research:

   * Clearly identify and describe any potentially harmful content in a disclaimer in the project’s README.md file.
   * Provide a preferred contact method for any 3rd party abuse inquiries through a SECURITY.md file in the repository (e.g. "Please create an issue on this repository for any questions or concerns"). Such a contact method allows 3rd parties to reach out to project maintainers directly and potentially resolve concerns without the need to file abuse reports.

>    We allow dual use content and assume positive intention and use of these projects to promote and drive improvements across the ecosystem. In rare cases of very widespread abuse of dual use content, we may restrict access to that specific instance of the content to disrupt an ongoing unlawful attack or malware campaign. Restriction is aimed at disrupting ongoing attack or malware campaigns and where possible takes the form of putting the content behind authentication, but may, as an option of last resort, involve a full removal where this is not possible (e.g. when posted as a gist) or if the content is posted by the account owner as part of a direct participation in unlawful attack or malware campaigns that are causing technical harms. We will contact the project owner in an effort to discuss and collaborate on any such response. The goal is to hinder the proliferation of a specific unlawful active attack or malware campaign that is causing technical harm, and does not serve the purpose of purging or restricting any specific dual use content, or copies of that content, from the platform in perpetuity. While we aim to make these rare cases of restriction a collaborative process with project owners, if you do feel your content was unduly restricted, we have an appeals process in place (See "Appeal and Reinstatement")

Reviewer 15: Suggestion: Please add text that explains that restrictions/removal will be temporary where possible. i.e. if a genuine dual-use piece of content is somehow deemed to be contributing to "ongoing attack or malware campaigns" then any restriction/removal will be reverted when the content is no longer doing so.

* Account Suspension
* Account Termination

### Appeal and Reinstatement

> In some cases there may be a basis to reverse an action, for example, based on additional information a user provided, or where a user has addressed the violation and agreed to abide by our Acceptable Use Policies moving forward. If you wish to appeal an enforcement action, please contact [support](https://support.github.com/contact).

Reviewer 16: I'd like to see the security community as part of the governance that decides appeals rather than Github support. Attitudes will change over time and certain situations will be thornier than others. If the security community is at the table (not the sole decision makers), the outcomes will be all the stronger for it.
